Feature/initial commit (#1)
moneymeets/action-beanstalk-deploy: README.md

# action-beanstalk-deploy
GitHub action for AWS Elastic Beanstalk deployment

# Introduction

> This action manages a full beanstalk environment update. The whole steps are listed below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This action manages a full Beanstalk environment update. The whole steps are listed below:
```

The config file will be read from a config file, the path can be set with `config_path`
An example of the configuration file is listed below.
This step will only be executed if the `build_and_upload_image` key is set in the configuration file.

### Create and upload deployment archive (Dockerrun.aws.json)
Create `deploy-CommitHash.zip` and upload it to the specified application version bucket.
This zip archive contains only the `Dockerrun.aws.json` at this moment.

### Create Beanstalk application version
This action uses a different Beanstalk application for each environment e.g. (dev, test, live)

### Update Beanstalk environment
Updates the given Beanstalk environment with given version label, which will be created before.

### Wait until deployment finished
Default settings will wait until the deployment process is finished and the Beanstalk environment is in ready and healthy state.

# Config example
`dev.json`:
```json
{
  "build_and_upload_image": true,
  "application_name": "my-sample-application-dev",
  "environment_name": "sample-application-dev",
  "application_version_bucket": "sample-application-version-bucket-dev",

>   "container_configs": [

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "container": [
```
oder
```suggestion
  "container_settings": [
```

Author: Mit `containers` kann ich auch leben. In unserem Fall vom Mail Dispatcher ist es nur einer, für Keycloak haben wir an der stelle 2 Container, deshalb die Liste.

Wir verwenden tatsächlich ein und das selbe Image beim Deployment. Beim Deployment wird der `Commit Hash` als Tag an die `base_url` dran gehangen.

    {
      "dockerfile_path": "docker/Dockerfile",
      "name": "sample-application",

>       "image_base_url": "YourAwsAccountId.dkr.ecr.YourAwsRegion.amazonaws.com/your-ecr-repository",

Author: Ich wollte hier kenntlich machen, dass es sich hier lediglich um die `base_url` handelt, da das Tag von der Action später dem `string` hier zugefügt wird.

Hast du einen Alternativen vorschlag @stohrendorf ?

>       "image_base_url": "YourAwsAccountId.dkr.ecr.YourAwsRegion.amazonaws.com/your-ecr-repository",

Reviewer 2: Ist halt schwierig, da es sich dabei um einen untagged image name handelt. Bei Docker ist es nun mal so, dass der Image Name die URL der Registry enthalten kann, aber nun mal nicht muss. Ich könnte mir noch `untagged_image_name` vorstellen, oder `image_base_name`.

>       "image_base_url": "YourAwsAccountId.dkr.ecr.YourAwsRegion.amazonaws.com/your-ecr-repository",

Author: In unserem Fall verwenden wir immer tagged Images und man soll nicht der Meinung sein, dass hier latest verwendet werden kann.

`image_base_name` finde ich eine gute Alternative. Werde ich anpassen.

>       "host_port": 80,
>       "container_port": 80

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "ports": [
        {
          "host": 80,
          "container": 80
        }
      ]
```

Reviewer 3: Hier hatte ich mit @marns93 gesprochen, dass wir erstmal nur einen host/container_port supporten wollen, weil das andere wohl komplizierter wird. Man könnte natürlich überlegen, hier ein Array zu nehmen. Dann sollte aber noch gecheckt werden, dass immer genau 1 Element da drin ist.

Reviewer: Mir geht erstmal nur um Config-Format. Gerne mit ein assert, dass nur 1 Element drin ist. Ich will es erweiterbar haben...

    }
  ]
}
```

`test.json`:
```json
{
  "build_and_upload_image": false,
  "application_name": "my-sample-application-test",
  "environment_name": "sample-application-test",
  "application_version_bucket": "sample-application-version-bucket-test",
  "container_configs": [
    {
      "dockerfile_path": "docker/Dockerfile",
      "name": "sample-application",
      "image_base_url": "YourAwsAccountId.dkr.ecr.YourAwsRegion.amazonaws.com/your-ecr-repository",
      "host_port": 80,
      "container_port": 80
    }
  ]
}
```

# Defaults
- aws_region: `eu-central-1`
- version_label: `${{ github.sha }}`
- version_description: `"GitHub Action #${{ github.run_number }}"`
- wait_for_deployment: `true`
- base_path: `${{ github.workspace }}`

# Usage

> See [action.yml](action.yml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [action.yml](action.yml).
```

Basic (with default values):
```yaml
steps:
  - name: Deploy
    uses: moneymeets/action-beanstalk-deploy@master
    with:
      aws_access_key_id: ${{ secrets.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
      aws_secret_access_key: ${{ secrets.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
      config_path: "${{ format('configs/{0}.json', github.event.deployment.environment) }}"
```

With full list of parameters:
```yaml
steps:
  - name: Deploy
    uses: moneymeets/action-beanstalk-deploy@master
    with:
      aws_access_key_id: ${{ secrets.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
      aws_secret_access_key: ${{ secrets.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
      config_path: "${{ format('configs/{0}.json', github.event.deployment.environment) }}"
      aws_region: eu-central-1
      version_label: CustomVersionLabel
      version_description: CustomVersionDescription
      base_path: ${{ github.workspace }}
      wait_for_deployment: false

> ```

Reviewer 3: Ich finde die README.md ist echt klasse!

Reviewer: Ja, das wollte ich auch anmerken. Echt geil gemacht.

Reviewer 2: newline fehlt :)

# action-beanstalk-deploy
GitHub action for AWS Elastic Beanstalk deployment

# Introduction
This action manages a full Beanstalk environment update. The whole steps are listed below:

> ### Build and upload docker images

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Build and upload docker images
```

This step builds docker images, given by a list of container configurations.

> The config file will be read from a config file, the path can be set with `config_path`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The config file will be read from a config file, the path can be set with `config_path`.
```

> An example of the configuration file is listed below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example of the configuration file is shown below.
```

This step will only be executed if the `build_and_upload_image` key is set in the configuration file.

> ### Create and upload deployment archive (Dockerrun.aws.json)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create and upload deployment archive (Dockerrun.aws.json)
```

> Create `deploy-CommitHash.zip` and upload it to the specified application version bucket.

Reviewer 2: CommitHash wird denke ich dann durch den SHA ersetzt, oder? Dann würde ich hier noch ein Beispiel angeben.

This zip archive contains only the `Dockerrun.aws.json` at this moment.

> ### Create Beanstalk application version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create Beanstalk application version
```

> This action uses a different Beanstalk application for each environment e.g. (dev, test, live)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This action uses a different Beanstalk application for each environment, e.g. (dev, test, live).
```

> ### Update Beanstalk environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Update Beanstalk environment
```

> Updates the given Beanstalk environment with given version label, which will be created before.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update the given Beanstalk environment with the given version label, which was created before.
```

> ### Wait until deployment finished

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Wait until the deployment is finished
```

> Default settings will wait until the deployment process is finished and the Beanstalk environment is in ready and healthy state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default settings are to wait until the deployment process is finished and the Beanstalk environment is in ready and healthy state.
```

# Config example
`dev.json`:
```json
{
  "build_and_upload_image": true,
  "application_name": "my-sample-application-dev",
  "environment_name": "sample-application-dev",
  "application_version_bucket": "sample-application-version-bucket-dev",
  "containers": [
    {
      "dockerfile": "docker/Dockerfile",
      "name": "sample-application",
      "image_base_name": "YourAwsAccountId.dkr.ecr.YourAwsRegion.amazonaws.com/your-ecr-repository",
      "ports": [
        {
          "host": 80,
          "container": 80
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

`test.json`:
```json
{
  "build_and_upload_image": false,
  "application_name": "my-sample-application-test",
  "environment_name": "sample-application-test",
  "application_version_bucket": "sample-application-version-bucket-test",
  "containers": [
    {
      "dockerfile": "docker/Dockerfile",
      "name": "sample-application",
      "image_base_name": "YourAwsAccountId.dkr.ecr.YourAwsRegion.amazonaws.com/your-ecr-repository",
      "ports": [
        {
          "host": 80,
          "container": 80
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

# Defaults

> - aws_region: `eu-central-1`
> - version_label: `${{ github.sha }}`
> - version_description: `"GitHub Action #${{ github.run_number }}"`
> - wait_for_deployment: `true`
> - base_path: `${{ github.workspace }}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Variable | Default
---------|--------
`aws_region` | `eu-central-1`
`version_label` | `${{ github.sha }}`
`version_description` | `"GitHub Action #${{ github.run_number }}"`
`wait_for_deployment` | `true`
`base_path` | `${{ github.workspace }}`
```

# Usage

See [action.yml](action.yml).

Basic (with default values):
```yaml
steps:
  - name: Deploy
    uses: moneymeets/action-beanstalk-deploy@master
    with:
      aws_access_key_id: ${{ secrets.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
      aws_secret_access_key: ${{ secrets.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
      config_path: "${{ format('configs/{0}.json', github.event.deployment.environment) }}"
```

With full list of parameters:
```yaml
steps:
  - name: Deploy
    uses: moneymeets/action-beanstalk-deploy@master
    with:
      aws_access_key_id: ${{ secrets.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
      aws_secret_access_key: ${{ secrets.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
      config_path: "${{ format('configs/{0}.json', github.event.deployment.environment) }}"
      aws_region: eu-central-1
      version_label: CustomVersionLabel
      version_description: CustomVersionDescription
      base_path: ${{ github.workspace }}
      wait_for_deployment: false
```

# Local testing
You can test the action python script, by settings the necessary environment variables.

> The local image will be build with a suffix `-ci`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The local image will be built with a suffix `-ci`.
```

> Make sure, that valid AWS credentials are exported into your profile, or located in `~/.aws/credentials` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure that valid AWS credentials are exported into your profile, or located in `~/.aws/credentials` file.
```
